# Managing Silos

A silo is a storage space that is the same regardless of platform used. Even though a silo may appear as a directory in your cloud storage, it is highly recommended that a silo should **only** be managed by the command line tool.

## OpenFlight Silo

The Flight Silo tool comes with the `openflight` silo, this is a read-only silo that provides some example files & software. So long as the [AWS platform](index.md#setting-up-platforms) is prepared then the `openflight` repository can be interacted with to pull files and software. 

## Viewing Silos

To see the available silos on the system use the command `flight silo repo list`. 

```bash
[flight@chead1 ~]$ flight silo repo list
┌────────────┬───────────────────────────────────┬──────────┬─────────┬────────────┐
│ Name       │ Description                       │ Platform │ Public? │ ID         │
├────────────┼───────────────────────────────────┼──────────┼─────────┼────────────┤
│ mysilo1    │                                   │ aws      │ false   │ ABCDE123   │
│ openflight │ Openflight software and resources │ aws      │ true    │ OPENFLIGHT │
└────────────┴───────────────────────────────────┴──────────┴─────────┴────────────┘
```

!!! note
    Silos that are defined locally and no longer exist upstream will be marked in yellow. This can occur when a silo has been deleted from a different system.

## Creating and Adding Silos

To create a silo use the command `flight silo repo create`. This will take you through a series of questions:

- Provider type - Which provider the silo should be created on.
- Silo name - What the name of the silo should be.

After this point, any further questions depend on the chosen platform.

=== ":material-aws: AWS"

    - Region - The region the silo should be created in.
    - Access key ID - The ID for a valid aws access key.
    - Secret access key - The secret key for a valid aws access key.

    More information about AWS access keys can be found [in the AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/powershell/latest/userguide/pstools-appendix-sign-up.html).

=== ":simple-openstack: OpenStack"

    - Endpoint URL - The URL of the OpenStack Swift Storage service to store this silo 
    - Access key ID - The ID for a valid access key generated by OpenStack EC2-like credentials
    - Secret access key - The secret key for the above access key

You can add an already existing silo with the command `flight silo repo add`. All questions asked will be the same as for creation, except that the answers will be used to find an existing silo.

## Removing and Deleting Silos

If you no longer wish to have access to a silo on your machine, you can run the command `flight silo repo remove <name>`. This means that in order to access the silo again you would need to use the `add` command.

A silo can be deleted with `flight silo repo delete <name>`. Unlike the `remove` command, the silo could not be re-added later as it is fully deleted upstream along with all of its contents.

## Setting a default silo

If a default silo has been set, then commands that require a silo to be specified in the argument will use the default instead. Set a default with the command `flight silo set-default` e.g.
```bash
[flight@chead1 ~]$ flight silo set-default openflight
Default silo set to: openflight
```

## Editing Silo Information

When a silo is created it is named and the description is left blank. Both the name and description can be modified using the `flight silo repo edit` command. For example:
```bash
[flight@chead1 ~]$ flight silo repo edit mysilo1
Silo name: myfilesilo1
Silo description: This is my silo for sharing files between ephemeral cloud systems!
Updating silo details...
Silo details updated
```

!!! note
    Any other systems that have a silo added locally will detect upstream changes and will require `flight silo repo refresh` to be run to ensure names and descriptions are synchronised with the upstream silo.
